the investments that made jay-z a
billionaire Brooklyn's own Sean Carter
better known as jay-z officially became
hip hop's first billionaire earlier this
year and even if you were to just look
at his music career you'd see a whole
lot of dollar signs he has 22 Grammys 14
number-one albums and over a hundred and
25 million records sold worldwide yet
rappers that have sold more albums than
him have a significantly lower net worth
like Eminem who's sitting around 200
million dollars according to Forbes why
is that well the majority of jay-z's net
worth came from his lucrative
investments and business ventures while
other rappers of his class are less
interested in business and more inclined
to just work on their artistry Jay his
show time and time again that his main
passion lies within being a businessman
from clothing brands to liquor companies
here are some of the investments that
helped jay-z become hip hop's one true
mobile as well as some that didn't go as
well as he had hoped before we start the
video make sure you click the like
button and don't forget to subscribe to
our Channel number eight jet smarter one
of the more lucrative ventures and homes
catalog is the uber of private jets
known as jet smarter the app that a lot
of your favorite rappers used to flex in
the private jet they don't own in July
of 2015
jay-z invested an undisclosed amount of
money into the jet sharing startup
originally developed by Sergey Petro
Sauve the app itself is free it's
staying a member that will really burn a
hole in your wallet you'd have to pay
fifteen thousand dollars just to get
initiated and then another 11.5 grand
after every year for the service but hey
where there's a demand there's a market
leaving us to gawk at the lifestyles of
the rich and famous while we don't know
exactly how much jay-z is invested but
it is known that the startup landed 105
million dollar expansion of its services
with the company itself being valued at
around 1.6 billion dollars that's some
serious dough perhaps even crazier this
is not a unique startup and a full
market exists for these sorts of
services I can only imagine jay-z trying
to decide between the uber versus the
lifts of the skies
number seven art Alva has been known as
a connoisseur of fine art since before
he could even afford it a lot of us
probably remember back in 2014 when
Drake aptly pointed out that it's like
Jay can't drop bars without at least
four art references with bars that
reference acclaimed artists from Picasso
to Andy Warhol it only makes sense that
the mobile would cultivate an art
collection of his own Forbes estimated
that Jay Z's art collection is valued at
approximately 70 million dollars he's
spent upwards of 4.5 million on a single
piece specifically on bassically at the
1982 mecca piece which depicts New York
City's skyline
most Kings yeah I'm inspired about you
know life and all sorts of things you
can say something right now and wouldn't
inspired me to write a song or something
to happen you know most Kings just
happen to be inspired by Basquiat
drawing you know they drawn him he had
most young kings get their head cut off
on the bottom and I looked at that and
that was like it's powerful you know
this is the statement in itself you know
lends itself for a song song starts
inspired by Basquiat the beautiful thing
about art is once you hit a certain
point it starts gaining value over time
and nobody knows that better than Hova
himself as he raps about on the story of
oj he apparently bought some artwork for
1 million two years later it was worth 2
million and a few years later that blank
was worth 8 million dollars number 6
julep but for every success there are
plenty more duds you can't win them all
and jay-z felt the burn when he invested
in beauty product company julep
featuring over 300 new products each
year sold through subscription boxes and
startup raked in over 70 million dollars
in funds from venture capitalists and
whole was at the forefront of the
company's cult following other
high-profile investors included Will
Smith and Howard Schultz of Starbucks
fortune business was booming in 2013 and
jay-z's 10 million dollar investment
seemed to be worth it with sales would
stagnate in 2014 and the company would
layoff over 100 workers before filing
for bankruptcy in 2018 11 years in the
product was defunct and just like that
jay-z lost his investment maybe this was
a miscalculated move on his
because he's not very well-versed in the
beauty and makeup industry or you could
chalk it up to bad luck who knows number
five Raqqa where one of homes most
famous brands as well as one of his
oldest is Rocawear which was started in
1999 with business partner turned enemy
Dame - producing all sorts of clothes
and accessories from socks to belts to
handbags and sunglasses the company was
raking in over seven hundred million
dollars annually when he sold the rights
of the brand to ikonics for two hundred
four million dollars cash in 2007 Mike
onyx is a company that essentially buys
the rights to other brands and rakes in
the dough and owns such brands as New
York starter and Eko unlimited jay-z
didn't lose his brand entirely though he
still maintains ownership in the rocker
where operating company which
manufactures the clothes and also still
handles marketing and product
developments not a bad payday and hope
still gets to rake in the cash from the
clothing empire he founded off the
success of his record label my question
is do people still buy Rocawear in 2019
I can't say I've seen it number four
uber best investment advice that you
ever received what was it do remember
whether it was in the market or just
investing in life and in business yeah I
think just doing things that you believe
in you know things that you understand I
think that's the best and that's my
heart warren buffett's say that just the
other day and I just innately felt that
you know just invest in things that you
understand as it turns out jay-z's
investment in jets smarter was not his
first rodeo with ride-sharing companies
in fact he was making some serious moves
to not only get in on uber but secure
himself a large stake in it back in 2013
just as uber was about to hit the ground
running
jay-z agreed to invest two million
dollars in the company and then wired
uber an extra three million dollars in
hopes that he would get a larger stake
old strategy but it didn't pay off
while uber respected the audacious move
they ultimately declined and returned
the difference still though it was a
pretty baller move and it still turned
out fine for him today that two million
dollar investment is worth around
seventy million dollars that's a thirty
five fold return I bet he wishes they
would have accepted that extra monies
as that would have been an extra hundred
million added to his net worth number
three title one of jay-z's more
well-known brands although no one is
exactly sure what for was when he
invested in title a music streaming
platform that was intended to be an
artist friendly service partially owned
by artists such as Kanye West
Calvin Harris and of course Holmes wife
Beyonce who bought for fifty six million
dollars in 2015 title saw some shaky
media coverage and odd quirks but jay-z
was still able to establish the platform
as a voice in the highly competitive
straining market what's more he flipped
the initial investment for two hundred
million dollars only two years later
selling a 33% stake in the company the
cellphone providers sprint in early 2017
this venture now represents 100 million
dollars in jay-z's net worth a healthy
10% he still retains his share of the
ownership to this day and for its part
Sprint provided title for free to its 45
million retail customers pretty sweet
deal if you're on Sprint's but against
Apple music or Spotify I don't see much
of a comparison myself some accusations
of an ethical activity have been made
against the company like that have faked
over 300 million streams to inflate
Kanye West and Beyonce's album sales
numbers but that hasn't stopped Jay from
cashing in on the trend of streaming
services number 2 do you say rappers and
beverage lines go hand-in-hand 50 Cent's
vitamin water
Diddy's vodka Ciroc and J is not the
exception to that rule he invested in
multiple beverage lines which he helped
cultivate and grow eventually becoming a
large portion of his net worth one of
his first ventures into the line of
alcohol it was when he became the owner
of the 40/40 club a chain of high-end
sports bars started in New York City
moving past this he went on to develop
his own brand of cognac dusa which he
co-owns with alcohol giant Bacardi if
you say is growing at a rapid pace
moving over 200,000 cases of cognac
annually and stopped in thousands of
stores across the United States
the venture proved to be very lucrative
for him representing 100 million dollars
of his net worth
number one Armand de Brignac another
wildly successful venture for jay-z is
his champagne brand known as Armand de
Brignac champagne and one of the biggest
purchases of his financial career jay-z
bought the brand in 2014 for 200 million
dollars no I didn't say that wrong he
dropped the brand two hundred million
dollars and what was probably the
biggest flex any rapper has ever made
jay-z has been involved with a brand for
much longer
having repped the golden bottle
champagne in the 2006 music video for
show me what you got since that initial
investments the Armand de Brignac brand
is now worth 310 million dollars of
jay-z's total net worth it is easily his
most successful venture and accounts for
over 30 percent of his net worth imagine
having 300 million dollars and it isn't
even half of your net worth pretty crazy
right especially for a guy who grew up
in one of the most dangerous housing
projects in New York other big
moneymakers for the rap mogul include
around 50 million dollars in real estate
75 million in rock nation which is his
entertainment company that manages many
high-profile names such as Rihanna Meek
Mill and Megan the stallion and around
75 million dollars in his own music
catalog with a billion dollars to his
name jay-z can rightfully claim the
throne as the best hustler to ever do it
at least in hip-hop do you guys think
any rapper will have a net worth that
surpasses jay-z's let us know in the
comments section below and before you
leave the video make sure you click the
like button and don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel
you